docs/agent-query-guide.md, before:

# Agent Query Guide

This guide is for a security analyst using `sis query` to investigate PDF samples with the `sis` toolkit. Treat each step as part of a structured analysis: gather context, explore suspicious artefacts, follow attack paths, and validate results before acting. Always run queries locally on a copy of the PDF sample and keep extracted data confined to the analysis workspace.

## Objectives for an analyst agent
1. Confirm whether a PDF is malicious by reconstructing its attack surface (actions, URIs, embedded payloads, filters, JS).  
2. Prioritise findings by severity/impact and trace their correlations (chains, shared objects).  
3. Document observable artefacts (preview snippets, triggers, outcomes) and suggest containment/remediation steps.  
4. Provide clear, reproducible query commands so teammates or automation can rerun the same investigation.

## General workflow
1. **Triage scan**: `sis scan sample.pdf` to produce baseline findings.  
2. **Deep dive**: re-run `sis scan sample.pdf --deep` if structural issues were flagged (polyglot, ObjStm anomalies, irregular filters).  
3. **Report generation**: `sis report sample.pdf -o sample.md` (or `--format json`/`jsonl`) to summarise findings, chains, evidence, and metadata.  
4. **Interactive querying**: Use `sis query` to inspect specific surfaces (JavaScript, URLs, actions, objects) when something looks suspicious.

## `sis query` patterns for PDF analysts
### Basic commands
- `sis query findings sample.pdf` — dump all findings with metadata; pipe to `jq` or `grep` to filter.  
- `sis query findings sample.pdf --where "severity == 'High'" --format json` — focus on high-severity signals for quick triage.  
- `sis query actions sample.pdf --format table` — view action dictionaries (trigger/action/payload).  
- `sis query urls sample.pdf --where "length > 32"` — show long, potentially obfuscated URIs along with canonicalised details.

### Structured surfaces
- **Objects**: `sis query objects sample.pdf --where "stream.filter_count > 0"` to inspect decoded streams.  
- **Action chains**: `sis query actions sample.pdf --where "chain.depth >= 3" --format json` (use `--chain-summary minimal` to drop verbose edges).  
- **JavaScript**: `sis query js sample.pdf --where "length > 1024" --format jsonl` and examine `js.payload_preview`/`js.ast_urls`.  
- **URIs**: `sis query urls sample.pdf --where "suspicious == true" --format table` identifies flagged URIs with chain context (action label, chain depth).  
- **Embedded files**: `sis query embedded sample.pdf --where "mime.contains('pe')"` surfaces executables hidden inside objects.

### Advanced queries & filtering tips
- Use `--where` to combine predicates: `sis query findings sample.pdf --where "kind == 'annotation_action_chain' && severity == 'Medium'"`.  
- Combine `--format json` with `jq`/Python to produce custom dashboards (e.g., summarise `uri.count_*`, `action.chain_depth`).  
- `sis query graph sample.pdf --format dot` exports the ORG/IR graph to visualise relationships (use Graphviz to render).  
- Add `--extract-to /tmp/out` for object streams or JS when you need to analyse payload bytes offline.

## Deep-dive examples
- **Follow the finding**: once `sis query findings sample.pdf --where "severity in ['High', 'Critical']"` identifies a suspicious entry, note the `correlation.object`, `meta.action.target`, or `chain_id`. Query `sis query objects sample.pdf --where "object.number == <object>" --format json` to read the dictionary metadata, including `stream.filters`, `node_preview`, and any linked `action_chain` details. This keeps the surface context for every suspicious object in view.
- **Dump the stream**: with the object number confirmed, run `sis query sample.pdf stream <obj> 0 --extract-to /tmp/streams --raw` to write the decoded stream to disk, or add `--hexdump` for a quick size/entropy sanity check before exporting. Use `--format table` to confirm byte ranges, filter counts and decode status so you capture the exact payload you intend to analyse.
- **Trace JavaScript payloads**: use `sis query actions sample.pdf --where "action_type == 'JavaScript'" --chain-summary minimal` to list every JS trigger, then pipe the resulting object ids into `sis query js sample.pdf --where "object.number == <js_obj>" --format jsonl`. Combine this with `--extract-to /tmp/scripts --raw --decode` to dump the JS to a safe workspace for deeper static or dynamic examination.

## Query scope exercise
- Trace a finding across surfaces: after identifying a `launch` finding, run `sis query urls sample.pdf --where "chain_id == '<chain_id>'"`, `sis query embedded sample.pdf --where "object_id == <object_id>"`, and `sis query actions sample.pdf --where "chain_id == '<chain_id>'"` to ensure every related surface agrees with your hypothesis.  
- Use `sis query --path ./samples --glob "*.pdf" findings.high --format jsonl` to rehearse the same scope on an entire corpus; compare `correlation.object` and `assertion.node_preview` across files to spot repeated artefacts and reduce blind spots.  
- Cross-verify stream and object outputs by comparing `sis query objects.sample.pdf --where "reference_count > 1"` with `sis query stream <obj> 0 --format table`; missing references or truncated filters from one surface often reveal deliberately hidden payloads.

### Chain/correlation observation
The new `Chain analysis` section in `sis report` summarises grouped attack paths. Use `sis query findings sample.pdf --where "chain_id == 'chain-abc'"` when you need an individual chain definition, or run `sis query actions sample.pdf --where "chain_id != null" --format table` to inspect triggers, actions, and payloads per chain. Correlate `correlation` metadata (e.g., `correlation.object`) between findings to understand which objects host multiple suspicious artefacts.

## Recommended agent behaviour
1. Start with high-severity findings (`sis query findings --where "severity == 'High'"`). Document the path from trigger to payload/result using `node_preview`/`payload.summary`.  
2. Look for polyglot/policy violations (`polyglot_signature_conflict`, `invalid_pdf_header`). These often accompany hidden payloads or tampering.  
3. Use `sis query uris` and follow the `chain_depth` metadata to see how many steps away a URI is from a trigger.  
4. Capture evidence spans (offsets/lengths) from findings or `sis query objects` output, so incident responders can reproduce the exact byte ranges.  
5. When raising alerts, cite the `finding.id`, `meta.action.target`, and `node preview` information from the query to make investigations reproducible.

## Sample session notes
```
# Step 1: Review high severity findings
sis query findings sample.pdf --where "severity == 'High'" --format table
# Step 2: See where URIs live
sis query urls sample.pdf --where "suspicious == true" --format table
# Step 3: Check event chains for automatic execution
sis query actions sample.pdf --where "chain.depth > 2" --chain-summary events --format table
# Step 4: Inspect potential payload objects for encoded binaries
sis query objects sample.pdf --where "stream.filter_count >= 2" --format jsonl
# Step 5: Dump the decoded stream for a suspicious object
sis query sample.pdf stream 45 0 --extract-to /tmp/streams --raw
# Step 6: Follow the scope of the finding across objects, URIs, and actions
sis query urls sample.pdf --where "chain_id == '<chain_id>'" --format table
```

## Reporting back
Summarise the attack in terms of outcome: describe triggers/actions/payloads, the evidence (object references, offsets, previews), and recommended mitigations (e.g., block the suspicious URI, restrict automatic actions). Link to the generated Markdown/JSON report for completeness.

Commit message:

Document pdfjs guidance and plan

docs/agent-query-guide.md, after:

# Agent Query Guide

This guide is for a security analyst using `sis query` to investigate PDF samples with the `sis` toolkit. Treat each step as part of a structured analysis: gather context, explore suspicious artefacts, follow attack paths, and validate results before acting. Always run queries locally on a copy of the PDF sample and keep extracted data confined to the analysis workspace.

## Objectives for an analyst agent
1. Confirm whether a PDF is malicious by reconstructing its attack surface (actions, URIs, embedded payloads, filters, JS).  
2. Prioritise findings by severity/impact and trace their correlations (chains, shared objects).  
3. Document observable artefacts (preview snippets, triggers, outcomes) and suggest containment/remediation steps.  
4. Provide clear, reproducible query commands so teammates or automation can rerun the same investigation.

## General workflow
1. **Triage scan**: `sis scan sample.pdf` to produce baseline findings.  
2. **Deep dive**: re-run `sis scan sample.pdf --deep` if structural issues were flagged (polyglot, ObjStm anomalies, irregular filters).  
3. **Report generation**: `sis report sample.pdf -o sample.md` (or `--format json`/`jsonl`) to summarise findings, chains, evidence, and metadata.  
4. **Interactive querying**: Use `sis query` to inspect specific surfaces (JavaScript, URLs, actions, objects) when something looks suspicious.

## `sis query` patterns for PDF analysts
### Basic commands
- `sis query findings sample.pdf` — dump all findings with metadata; pipe to `jq` or `grep` to filter.  
- `sis query findings sample.pdf --where "severity == 'High'" --format json` — focus on high-severity signals for quick triage.  
- `sis query actions sample.pdf --format table` — view action dictionaries (trigger/action/payload).  
- `sis query urls sample.pdf --where "length > 32"` — show long, potentially obfuscated URIs along with canonicalised details.

### Structured surfaces
- **Objects**: `sis query objects sample.pdf --where "stream.filter_count > 0" --format json` to inspect decoded streams, object dictionaries, `node_preview`, and `reference_count`.  
- **Action chains**: `sis query actions sample.pdf --where "chain.depth >= 3" --format json` (use `--chain-summary minimal` to drop verbose edges).  
- **JavaScript**: `sis query js sample.pdf --where "length > 1024" --format jsonl` and examine `js.payload_preview`/`js.ast_urls`.  
- **URIs**: `sis query urls sample.pdf --where "suspicious == true" --format table` identifies flagged URIs with chain context (action label, chain depth).  
- **Embedded files**: `sis query embedded sample.pdf --where "mime.contains('pe')"` surfaces executables hidden inside objects.

### Object inspection workflow
- Step 1: gather candidates with `sis query findings sample.pdf --where "meta.object_id != null" --format json --limit 20` and note each `meta.object_id`/`chain_id`.  
- Step 2: drill into the object dictionary: `sis query objects sample.pdf --where "object.number == <object>" --format json` shows filters, offsets, and `node_preview`. Keep an eye on `stream.filter_count`, `filters`, and `node_preview` to confirm whether the object contains a stream, font, or embedded payload.  
- Step 3: capture any linked actions or embedded files by following `meta.action.target`, `meta.chain_id`, or the `reference_id` from the object output. Use `sis query actions sample.pdf --where "object_id == <object>" --format table` to confirm triggers and payloads remain consistent, and rerun the first step if new objects emerge from the chain.

### Stream dumping & evidence capture
- Once the suspicious object number is locked down, run `sis query sample.pdf stream <obj> 0 --extract-to /tmp/streams --decode --raw` to materialise the decoded bytes. Add `--hexdump` if you need a quick size/entropy snapshot before exporting.  
- Review the command output (or the JSON record) to confirm `stream.filters`, `stream.decode` success/failure, and `stream.decode_error` text, then copy the extracted file into a safe workspace (`/tmp/streams`, `~/analysis`) for further static/dynamic tooling.  
- If the stream is obfuscated, use `--extract-to` together with `--decode` (or `--raw` followed by `sis query ... --deep`) to capture the transformation chain; document the filter sequence and offsets so peers can reproduce the exact bytes and log lines associated with the finding.

### Advanced queries & filtering tips
- Use `--where` to combine predicates: `sis query findings sample.pdf --where "kind == 'annotation_action_chain' && severity == 'Medium'"`.  
- Combine `--format json` with `jq`/Python to produce custom dashboards (e.g., summarise `uri.count_*`, `action.chain_depth`).  
- `sis query graph sample.pdf --format dot` exports the ORG/IR graph to visualise relationships (use Graphviz to render).  
- Add `--extract-to /tmp/out` for object streams or JS when you need to analyse payload bytes offline.

## Deep-dive examples
- **Follow the finding**: once `sis query findings sample.pdf --where "severity in ['High', 'Critical']"` identifies a suspicious entry, note the `correlation.object`, `meta.action.target`, or `chain_id`. Query `sis query objects sample.pdf --where "object.number == <object>" --format json` to read the dictionary metadata, including `stream.filters`, `node_preview`, and any linked `action_chain` details. This keeps the surface context for every suspicious object in view.
- **Dump the stream**: with the object number confirmed, run `sis query sample.pdf stream <obj> 0 --extract-to /tmp/streams --raw` to write the decoded stream to disk, or add `--hexdump` for a quick size/entropy sanity check before exporting. Use `--format table` to confirm byte ranges, filter counts and decode status so you capture the exact payload you intend to analyse.
- **Trace JavaScript payloads**: use `sis query actions sample.pdf --where "action_type == 'JavaScript'" --chain-summary minimal` to list every JS trigger, then pipe the resulting object ids into `sis query js sample.pdf --where "object.number == <js_obj>" --format jsonl`. Combine this with `--extract-to /tmp/scripts --raw --decode` to dump the JS to a safe workspace for deeper static or dynamic examination.

## Query scope exercise
- Trace a finding across surfaces: after identifying a `launch` finding, run `sis query urls sample.pdf --where "chain_id == '<chain_id>'"`, `sis query embedded sample.pdf --where "object_id == <object_id>"`, and `sis query actions sample.pdf --where "chain_id == '<chain_id>'"` to ensure every related surface agrees with your hypothesis.  
- Use `sis query --path ./samples --glob "*.pdf" findings.high --format jsonl` to rehearse the same scope on an entire corpus; compare `correlation.object` and `assertion.node_preview` across files to spot repeated artefacts and reduce blind spots.  
- Cross-verify stream and object outputs by comparing `sis query objects.sample.pdf --where "reference_count > 1"` with `sis query stream <obj> 0 --format table`; missing references or truncated filters from one surface often reveal deliberately hidden payloads.
- Periodically rehearse the same scopes against the pdf.js corpus: script `sis query --path tmp/pdf.js/test/pdfs/ --glob "*.pdf" findings.composite --format jsonl` and compare each `correlation.object`/`chain_id` to the nightly baseline.  
- When a finding spans objects and streams, capture the `finding.id`, `object.number`, and `stream.filters` from each query so your hypotheses can be replayed from the CLI or a scripted `sis query` pipeline.  
- Keep a short checklist (finding → object → stream → action) per suspicious chain to guard against missing indirect references; `node_preview` and `payload_preview` are your breadcrumbs.

### Chain/correlation observation
The new `Chain analysis` section in `sis report` summarises grouped attack paths. Use `sis query findings sample.pdf --where "chain_id == 'chain-abc'"` when you need an individual chain definition, or run `sis query actions sample.pdf --where "chain_id != null" --format table` to inspect triggers, actions, and payloads per chain. Correlate `correlation` metadata (e.g., `correlation.object`) between findings to understand which objects host multiple suspicious artefacts.

## Recommended agent behaviour
1. Start with high-severity findings (`sis query findings --where "severity == 'High'"`). Document the path from trigger to payload/result using `node_preview`/`payload.summary`.  
2. Look for polyglot/policy violations (`polyglot_signature_conflict`, `invalid_pdf_header`). These often accompany hidden payloads or tampering.  
3. Use `sis query uris` and follow the `chain_depth` metadata to see how many steps away a URI is from a trigger.  
4. Capture evidence spans (offsets/lengths) from findings or `sis query objects` output, so incident responders can reproduce the exact byte ranges.  
5. When raising alerts, cite the `finding.id`, `meta.action.target`, and `node preview` information from the query to make investigations reproducible.

## Sample session notes
```
# Step 1: Review high severity findings
sis query findings sample.pdf --where "severity == 'High'" --format table
# Step 2: See where URIs live
sis query urls sample.pdf --where "suspicious == true" --format table
# Step 3: Check event chains for automatic execution
sis query actions sample.pdf --where "chain.depth > 2" --chain-summary events --format table
# Step 4: Inspect potential payload objects for encoded binaries
sis query objects sample.pdf --where "stream.filter_count >= 2" --format jsonl
# Step 5: Dump the decoded stream for a suspicious object
sis query sample.pdf stream 45 0 --extract-to /tmp/streams --raw
# Step 6: Follow the scope of the finding across objects, URIs, and actions
sis query urls sample.pdf --where "chain_id == '<chain_id>'" --format table
```

## Reporting back
Summarise the attack in terms of outcome: describe triggers/actions/payloads, the evidence (object references, offsets, previews), and recommended mitigations (e.g., block the suspicious URI, restrict automatic actions). Link to the generated Markdown/JSON report for completeness.
